README.md, before:

[![Github Build Status](https://github.com/abrom/henkei/actions/workflows/test.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/abrom/henkei/actions/workflows/test.yml)
[![Maintainability](https://api.codeclimate.com/v1/badges/d06e8c917cf7d8c07234/maintainability)](https://codeclimate.com/github/abrom/henkei/maintainability)
[![Test Coverage](https://api.codeclimate.com/v1/badges/d06e8c917cf7d8c07234/test_coverage)](https://codeclimate.com/github/abrom/henkei/test_coverage)
[![Gem Version](http://img.shields.io/gem/v/henkei.svg?style=flat)](#)

# Henkei 変形

[Henkei](http://github.com/abrom/henkei) is a library for extracting text and metadata from files and documents using the [Apache Tika](http://tika.apache.org/) content analysis toolkit.

The library was forked from [Yomu](http://github.com/Erol/yomu) as it is no longer maintained.

Here are some of the formats supported:

- Microsoft Office OLE 2 and Office Open XML Formats (.doc, .docx, .xls, .xlsx,
  .ppt, .pptx)
- OpenOffice.org OpenDocument Formats (.odt, .ods, .odp)
- Apple iWorks Formats
- Rich Text Format (.rtf)
- Portable Document Format (.pdf)

For the complete list of supported formats, please visit the Apache Tika
[Supported Document Formats](http://tika.apache.org/0.9/formats.html) page.

## Upgrading from v1.x to v2.x

Apache Tika v2.x brings with it some changes. One key change is that the Tika client and server applications have
been split up. To keep the gem size down Henkei will only include the client app. That is to say, each time you
call to Henkei, a new Java process will be started, run your command, then terminate.

Another change is the metadata keys. A lot of duplicate keys have been removed in favour of a more standards
based approach. A list of the old vs new key names can be found [here](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/TIKA/Migrating+to+Tika+2.0.0#MigratingtoTika2.0.0-Metadata) 

## Usage

Text, metadata and MIME type information can be extracted by calling `Henkei.read` directly:

```ruby
require 'henkei'

data = File.read 'sample.pages'
text = Henkei.read :text, data
metadata = Henkei.read :metadata, data
mimetype = Henkei.read :mimetype, data
```

Henkei is backward compatible with Yomu

```ruby
text = Yomu.read :text, data
```

### Reading text from a given filename

Create a new instance of Henkei and pass a filename.

```ruby
henkei = Henkei.new 'sample.pages'
text = henkei.text
```

### Reading text from a given URL

This is useful for reading remote files, like documents hosted on Amazon S3.

```ruby
henkei = Henkei.new 'http://svn.apache.org/repos/asf/poi/trunk/test-data/document/sample.docx'
text = henkei.text
```

### Reading text from a stream

Henkei can also read from a stream or any object that responds to `read`, including file uploads from Ruby on Rails or Sinatra.

```ruby
post '/:name/:filename' do
  henkei = Henkei.new params[:data][:tempfile]
  henkei.text
end
```

### Reading text from inside images (OCR)

You can enable OCR by specifying the optional `include_ocr: true` when calling to the `text` or `html` instance methods,
as well as the `read` class method. Note that Tika does indicate this will greatly increase processing time.

```ruby
henkei = Henkei.new 'sample.pages'
text_with_ocr = henkei.text(include_ocr: true)
html_with_ocr = henkei.html(include_ocr: true)

data = File.read 'sample.pages'
text_with_ocr = Henkei.read :text, data, include_ocr: true
```

### Reading metadata

Metadata is returned as a hash.

```ruby
henkei = Henkei.new 'sample.pages'
henkei.metadata['Content-Type'] #=> "application/vnd.apple.pages"
```

### Reading MIME types

MIME type is returned as a MIME::Type object.

```ruby
henkei = Henkei.new 'sample.docx'
henkei.mimetype.content_type #=> "application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.wordprocessingml.document"
henkei.mimetype.extensions #=> ['docx']
```

## Installation and Dependencies

### Java Runtime

Henkei packages the Apache Tika application jar and requires a working JRE for it to work.
Check that you either have the `JAVA_HOME` environment variable set, or that `java` is in your path. 

### Gem

Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

    gem 'henkei'

And then execute:

    $ bundle

Or install it yourself as:

    $ gem install henkei
    
### Heroku

Add the JVM Buildpack to your Heroku project:

    $ heroku buildpacks:add heroku/jvm --index 1 -a YOUR_APP_NAME

## Contributing

1. Fork it
2. Create your feature branch ( `git checkout -b my-new-feature` )
3. Create tests and make them pass ( `rake test` )
4. Commit your changes ( `git commit -am 'Added some feature'` )
5. Push to the branch ( `git push origin my-new-feature` )
6. Create a new Pull Request

Commit message:

Add optional `encoding` argument to set output character encoding (#47)

README.md, after:

[![Github Build Status](https://github.com/abrom/henkei/actions/workflows/test.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/abrom/henkei/actions/workflows/test.yml)
[![Maintainability](https://api.codeclimate.com/v1/badges/d06e8c917cf7d8c07234/maintainability)](https://codeclimate.com/github/abrom/henkei/maintainability)
[![Test Coverage](https://api.codeclimate.com/v1/badges/d06e8c917cf7d8c07234/test_coverage)](https://codeclimate.com/github/abrom/henkei/test_coverage)
[![Gem Version](http://img.shields.io/gem/v/henkei.svg?style=flat)](#)

# Henkei 変形

[Henkei](http://github.com/abrom/henkei) is a library for extracting text and metadata from files and documents using the [Apache Tika](http://tika.apache.org/) content analysis toolkit.

The library was forked from [Yomu](http://github.com/Erol/yomu) as it is no longer maintained.

Here are some of the formats supported:

- Microsoft Office OLE 2 and Office Open XML Formats (.doc, .docx, .xls, .xlsx,
  .ppt, .pptx)
- OpenOffice.org OpenDocument Formats (.odt, .ods, .odp)
- Apple iWorks Formats
- Rich Text Format (.rtf)
- Portable Document Format (.pdf)

For the complete list of supported formats, please visit the Apache Tika
[Supported Document Formats](http://tika.apache.org/0.9/formats.html) page.

## Upgrading from v1.x to v2.x

Apache Tika v2.x brings with it some changes. One key change is that the Tika client and server applications have
been split up. To keep the gem size down Henkei will only include the client app. That is to say, each time you
call to Henkei, a new Java process will be started, run your command, then terminate.

Another change is the metadata keys. A lot of duplicate keys have been removed in favour of a more standards
based approach. A list of the old vs new key names can be found [here](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/TIKA/Migrating+to+Tika+2.0.0#MigratingtoTika2.0.0-Metadata)

## Usage

Text, metadata and MIME type information can be extracted by calling `Henkei.read` directly:

```ruby
require 'henkei'

data = File.read 'sample.pages'
text = Henkei.read :text, data
metadata = Henkei.read :metadata, data
mimetype = Henkei.read :mimetype, data
```

Henkei is backward compatible with Yomu

```ruby
text = Yomu.read :text, data
```

### Reading text from a given filename

Create a new instance of Henkei and pass a filename.

```ruby
henkei = Henkei.new 'sample.pages'
text = henkei.text
```

### Reading text from a given URL

This is useful for reading remote files, like documents hosted on Amazon S3.

```ruby
henkei = Henkei.new 'http://svn.apache.org/repos/asf/poi/trunk/test-data/document/sample.docx'
text = henkei.text
```

### Reading text from a stream

Henkei can also read from a stream or any object that responds to `read`, including file uploads from Ruby on Rails or Sinatra.

```ruby
post '/:name/:filename' do
  henkei = Henkei.new params[:data][:tempfile]
  henkei.text
end
```

### Reading text from inside images (OCR)

You can enable OCR by specifying the optional `include_ocr: true` when calling to the `text` or `html` instance methods,
as well as the `read` class method. Note that Tika does indicate this will greatly increase processing time.

```ruby
henkei = Henkei.new 'sample.pages'
text_with_ocr = henkei.text(include_ocr: true)
html_with_ocr = henkei.html(include_ocr: true)

data = File.read 'sample.pages'
text_with_ocr = Henkei.read :text, data, include_ocr: true
```

### Reading metadata

Metadata is returned as a hash.

```ruby
henkei = Henkei.new 'sample.pages'
henkei.metadata['Content-Type'] #=> "application/vnd.apple.pages"
```

### Reading MIME types

MIME type is returned as a MIME::Type object.

```ruby
henkei = Henkei.new 'sample.docx'
henkei.mimetype.content_type #=> "application/vnd.openxmlformats-officedocument.wordprocessingml.document"
henkei.mimetype.extensions #=> ['docx']
```

### Output text in a specific character encoding

You can specify the output character encoding by passing in the optional `encoding` argument when calling to the
`text` or `html` instance methods, as well as the `read` class method.

```ruby
henkei = Henkei.new 'sample.pages'
utf_8_text = henkei.text(encoding: 'UTF-8')
utf_16_html = henkei.html(encoding: 'UTF-16')

data = File.read 'sample.pages'
utf_32_text = Henkei.read :text, data, encoding: 'UTF-32'
```

## Installation and Dependencies

### Java Runtime

Henkei packages the Apache Tika application jar and requires a working JRE for it to work.
Check that you either have the `JAVA_HOME` environment variable set, or that `java` is in your path.

### Gem

Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

    gem 'henkei'

And then execute:

    $ bundle

Or install it yourself as:

    $ gem install henkei

### Heroku

Add the JVM Buildpack to your Heroku project:

    $ heroku buildpacks:add heroku/jvm --index 1 -a YOUR_APP_NAME

## Contributing

1. Fork it
2. Create your feature branch ( `git checkout -b my-new-feature` )
3. Create tests and make them pass ( `rake test` )
4. Commit your changes ( `git commit -am 'Added some feature'` )
5. Push to the branch ( `git push origin my-new-feature` )
6. Create a new Pull Request
